README.md, before:

# 💵 Bills, Bills, Bills! Expense Tracker

A **secure multi-user** web application for tracking recurring monthly expenses and payments with **complete data separation**. Inspired by Chronicle on MacOS.

## 🎯 Features

- **🔐 Secure Access**: Forced password change for default admin accounts
- **👥 Multi-Database**: Complete data isolation between user groups
- **📊 Track Expenses**: Monthly, quarterly, or yearly recurring bills
- **💰 Payment Logging**: Record payments with automatic bill cycling
- **📚 Payment History**: Full history with edit/delete capabilities
- **👨‍💼 Admin Controls**: User and database management
- **🎨 Custom Icons**: 44+ Material Design icons
- **📱 Responsive**: Works on desktop, tablet, and mobile

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Docker installed and running
- Web browser

### Run the Application

1. **Create a `docker-compose.yml` file** with the following content:

   ```yaml
   version: '3.8'

   services:
     bills-app:
       image: ghcr.io/brdweb/bills-bills-bills:latest
       container_name: bills-bills-bills
       ports:
         - "5000:5000"
       restart: unless-stopped
       volumes:
         # Persistent data storage for all databases
         - ./data:/app/data
         # Mount the shared database directory
         - ./dbs:/app/dbs
   ```

2. **Run the application:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. **If deploying to a fresh directory** - initialize the database:
   ```bash
   curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/init-db
   ```

4. **Open your browser** and visit: http://localhost:5000

## 🔐 First Login

Login with default credentials:
- **Username:** `admin`
- **Password:** `password`

⚠️ **Security Notice:** You will be **required to change the password** on first login.

## 💡 How to Use

### 1. Database Selection
After login, select your database from the dropdown:
- **personal** - Your personal finances (default)

### 2. Add Your First Bill
1. Click the **"Add Bill"** button (➕)
2. Enter bill details:
   - Name: "Internet", "Rent", etc.
   - Amount: Fixed amount or check "Varies" for variable costs
   - Frequency: Monthly, Quarterly, or Yearly
   - Due date and optional auto-payment setting

### 3. Record Payments
1. Click **"Pay"** on any bill
2. Enter payment amount
3. Choose to advance due date automatically
4. Payment recorded! 🎉

### 4. View Payment History
1. Click on any bill's payment amount
2. View, edit, or delete payment records

## 👥 User & Database Management (Admin Only)

### Admin Panel
- **Note:** Only admins can access the Admin Panel
- Click the **"Admin"** button after login

### Database Management
1. Create separate databases for different purposes (family, business, etc.)
2. Grant specific user access to databases
3. Complete data isolation between databases

### User Management
1. Add new users through the Admin Panel
2. Assign admin privileges when needed
3. Control database access permissions

## 🛠️ Application Management

### Start Application
```bash
# Using docker-compose (recommended)
docker-compose up -d

# Or manually
docker start bills-bills-bills
```

### View Logs
```bash
# Using docker-compose
docker-compose logs -f

# Or manually
docker logs -f bills-bills-bills
```

### Stop Application
```bash
# Using docker-compose
docker-compose down

# Or manually
docker stop bills-bills-bills
```

### Update to New Version
```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/brdweb/bills-bills-bills:latest
docker-compose down
docker-compose up -d
```

### Data Persistence
Docker Compose automatically creates persistent data directories:
- **`data/`** - User accounts, permissions, and system settings (auto-created)
- **`dbs/`** - Individual user databases (one per database you create, auto-created)
- **Your data is automatically preserved between deployments!**

## 🚨 Security Features

- **🔒 Forced Password Change**: Default admin credentials require immediate password update
- **🛡️ Data Isolation**: Complete separation between different user databases
- **🔐 Secure Authentication**: Session-based authentication with automatic timeouts
- **📝 Input Validation**: All user inputs are properly sanitized
- **👮 Admin Controls**: Granular permissions and access control

## ❓ Troubleshooting

### Can't Access Admin Panel?
- Ensure you're logged in as an admin user
- Check that the Admin button appears after login

### Login Problems?
- Verify default credentials: `admin` / `password`
- If admin login succeeds, you may need to change the password first

### Data Loss?
- Check that volume mounts are working properly
- Ensure `data/` and `dbs/` directories exist and are writable

### Database Errors?
- Restart the application (`docker-compose restart`)
- Check logs: `docker-compose logs -f`
- Contact support if persistent issues occur

## 📞 Support

For technical issues, please check:
1. Application logs (`docker-compose logs -f`)
2. Volume mount configurations (automatically handled by docker-compose)
3. Docker installation and availability

## 🏗️ Technical Details

**Deployment:** Docker Compose with persistent volumes
**Architecture:** Multi-SQLite database system with access control
**Frontend:** Pure HTML/CSS/JavaScript (No frameworks)
**Backend:** Python Flask with session management
**Database:** SQLite with database-level isolation

---

**Ready to organize your finances securely? Get started with Bills, Bills, Bills! 🚀**

Commit message:

Fully automated database initialization - no user intervention required
Added auto-detection of fresh deployments on startup
Automatic directory creation and database initialization
Removed manual curl command requirement
Truly zero-configuration deployment

README.md, after:

# 💵 Bills, Bills, Bills! Expense Tracker

A **secure multi-user** web application for tracking recurring monthly expenses and payments with **complete data separation**. Inspired by Chronicle on MacOS.

## 🎯 Features

- **🔐 Secure Access**: Forced password change for default admin accounts
- **👥 Multi-Database**: Complete data isolation between user groups
- **📊 Track Expenses**: Monthly, quarterly, or yearly recurring bills
- **💰 Payment Logging**: Record payments with automatic bill cycling
- **📚 Payment History**: Full history with edit/delete capabilities
- **👨‍💼 Admin Controls**: User and database management
- **🎨 Custom Icons**: 44+ Material Design icons
- **📱 Responsive**: Works on desktop, tablet, and mobile

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Docker installed and running
- Web browser

### Run the Application

1. **Create a `docker-compose.yml` file** with the following content:

   ```yaml
   version: '3.8'

   services:
     bills-app:
       image: ghcr.io/brdweb/bills-bills-bills:latest
       container_name: bills-bills-bills
       ports:
         - "5000:5000"
       restart: unless-stopped
       volumes:
         # Persistent data storage for all databases
         - ./data:/app/data
         # Mount the shared database directory
         - ./dbs:/app/dbs
   ```

2. **Run the application** (database auto-initializes on first startup):
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. **Open your browser** and visit: http://localhost:5000

## 🔐 First Login

Login with default credentials:
- **Username:** `admin`
- **Password:** `password`

⚠️ **Security Notice:** You will be **required to change the password** on first login.

## 💡 How to Use

### 1. Database Selection
After login, select your database from the dropdown:
- **personal** - Your personal finances (default)

### 2. Add Your First Bill
1. Click the **"Add Bill"** button (➕)
2. Enter bill details:
   - Name: "Internet", "Rent", etc.
   - Amount: Fixed amount or check "Varies" for variable costs
   - Frequency: Monthly, Quarterly, or Yearly
   - Due date and optional auto-payment setting

### 3. Record Payments
1. Click **"Pay"** on any bill
2. Enter payment amount
3. Choose to advance due date automatically
4. Payment recorded! 🎉

### 4. View Payment History
1. Click on any bill's payment amount
2. View, edit, or delete payment records

## 👥 User & Database Management (Admin Only)

### Admin Panel
- **Note:** Only admins can access the Admin Panel
- Click the **"Admin"** button after login

### Database Management
1. Create separate databases for different purposes (family, business, etc.)
2. Grant specific user access to databases
3. Complete data isolation between databases

### User Management
1. Add new users through the Admin Panel
2. Assign admin privileges when needed
3. Control database access permissions

## 🛠️ Application Management

### Start Application
```bash
# Using docker-compose (recommended)
docker-compose up -d

# Or manually
docker start bills-bills-bills
```

### View Logs
```bash
# Using docker-compose
docker-compose logs -f

# Or manually
docker logs -f bills-bills-bills
```

### Stop Application
```bash
# Using docker-compose
docker-compose down

# Or manually
docker stop bills-bills-bills
```

### Update to New Version
```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/brdweb/bills-bills-bills:latest
docker-compose down
docker-compose up -d
```

### Data Persistence
Docker Compose automatically creates persistent data directories:
- **`data/`** - User accounts, permissions, and system settings (auto-created)
- **`dbs/`** - Individual user databases (one per database you create, auto-created)
- **Your data is automatically preserved between deployments!**

## 🚨 Security Features

- **🔒 Forced Password Change**: Default admin credentials require immediate password update
- **🛡️ Data Isolation**: Complete separation between different user databases
- **🔐 Secure Authentication**: Session-based authentication with automatic timeouts
- **📝 Input Validation**: All user inputs are properly sanitized
- **👮 Admin Controls**: Granular permissions and access control

## ❓ Troubleshooting

### Can't Access Admin Panel?
- Ensure you're logged in as an admin user
- Check that the Admin button appears after login

### Login Problems?
- Verify default credentials: `admin` / `password`
- If admin login succeeds, you may need to change the password first

### Data Loss?
- Check that volume mounts are working properly
- Ensure `data/` and `dbs/` directories exist and are writable

### Database Errors?
- Restart the application (`docker-compose restart`)
- Check logs: `docker-compose logs -f`
- Contact support if persistent issues occur

## 📞 Support

For technical issues, please check:
1. Application logs (`docker-compose logs -f`)
2. Volume mount configurations (automatically handled by docker-compose)
3. Docker installation and availability

## 🏗️ Technical Details

**Deployment:** Docker Compose with persistent volumes
**Architecture:** Multi-SQLite database system with access control
**Frontend:** Pure HTML/CSS/JavaScript (No frameworks)
**Backend:** Python Flask with session management
**Database:** SQLite with database-level isolation

---

**Ready to organize your finances securely? Get started with Bills, Bills, Bills! 🚀**
